---
layout: post
category: CTF
---

The assignment is simple : 

```
Our intrusion detection system has alerted us to suspicious behavior on a workstation, pointing to a likely malware intrusion. A memory dump of this system has been taken for analysis. Your task is to analyze this dump, trace the malware’s actions, and report key findings. This analysis is critical in understanding the breach and preventing further compromise.
```
### Table of contents
- [Options](#options)
- [Determining the suspicious process](#determining-the-suspicious-process)
- [ChromeSetup.exe](#chromesetupexe)
- [Network communication](#network-communication)
- [Geolocation](#geolocation)
- [Hashing](#hashing)
- [Timestamp](#timestamp)
- [Related doamins](#related-domains)

---
### Options 

When it comes to memory analysis we have couple of options - most obvious is Volatility. But since I wanted to try something different and this was supposed to be an easy challenge I tried MemProcFS.  You might have heard of it or maybe you are hearing about it for the first time. In essence what it is - as the name suggests - MemProcFS creates file system out of ( in our case ) dumped memory that you can browse with an explorer as any other file structure. 

It is easy as : 

```
MemProcFS.exe -device C:\Users\xd33\Desktop\Cyberdefenders\159-Ramnit\memory.dmp -forensic 1
```

As you might have figured out - in this case it takes the dump file in the `-device` parameter and optional `-forensic 1` we will talk about that option later down the line but if you are curious you can check out the Git repo which has full fledged Wiki 

[GitHub - ufrisk/MemProcFS: MemProcFS](https://github.com/ufrisk/MemProcFS)

We can also take this opportunity as we can compare outputs of MemProcFs and Volatility respectively and see the protentional differences and benefits of both tools

---
### Determining the suspicious process 

Q: We need to identify the process responsible for this suspicious behavior. What is the name of the suspicious process?

First thing we can look at is the list of processes and associated command line arguments

With MemProcFS we can simply navigate to : `M:\sys\proc\proc-v.txt`  and after quick look we can identify suspicious exe - `ChromeSetup.exe`

MemProcFS:  ( which also provides : Process  Pid Parent  Flag User   Path / Command / Time / Integrity)

```
---- ChromeSetup.ex           4628   4568 32  U* alex             \Device\HarddiskVolume3\Users\alex\Downloads\ChromeSetup.exe
                                                                  C:\Users\alex\Downloads\ChromeSetup.exe
                                                                  "C:\Users\alex\Downloads\ChromeSetup.exe" 
                                                                  2024-02-01 19:48:50 UTC ->                     ***
                                                                  High
```


Volatility ( with windows.cmdline module  ) : 
```
6984    WmiPrvSE.exe    C:\Windows\system32\wbem\wmiprvse.exe
6500    svchost.exe     C:\Windows\system32\svchost.exe -k netsvcs -p -s Appinfo
7272    audiodg.exe     C:\Windows\system32\AUDIODG.EXE 0x4b8
4628    ChromeSetup.ex  "C:\Users\alex\Downloads\ChromeSetup.exe"
7380    svchost.exe     C:\Windows\system32\svchost.exe -k netsvcs -p -s lfsvc
```

---
### ChromeSetup.exe

Q: To eradicate the malware, what is the exact file path of the process executable?

This one is easy as we can see in both outputs the path which is : 
`C:\Users\alex\Downloads\ChromeSetup.exe`

---
### Network communication 

Q: Identifying network connections is crucial for understanding the malware's communication strategy. What is the IP address it attempted to connect to? 

With MemProcFS under `M:\sys\net\netstat.txt`  we can see basically output of `netstat`  which provides info about all active connections 

```
002c   4628 TCPv4  CLOSED       192.168.19.133:49682          58.64.204.181:5202           ChromeSetup.exe                     
002d   4628 TCPv4  CLOSED       192.168.19.133:49682          58.64.204.181:5202           ChromeSetup.exe                     
002e   4628 TCPv4  SYN_SENT     192.168.19.133:49682          58.64.204.181:5202           ChromeSetup.exe        
```

Volatility with  `windows.netstat` module provides us with following :  

```
0xca82b8bc2b30  TCPv4   192.168.19.133  49682   58.64.204.181   5202    SYN_SENT 4628    ChromeSetup.ex  2024-02-01 19:48:51.000000 UTC
```
---
### Geolocation 

Q: To pinpoint the geographical origin of the attack, which city is associated with the IP address the malware communicated with?

We can take what we learned about the suspicious process and associated  network communication and see if Virustotal can help us determine the answer for the question above 

[VirusTotal - IP address - 58.64.204.181](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/ip-address/58.64.204.181)

As we can see not only is the IP flagged ( not very much tho - only 1 detection at the time of writing ) but VT provides us with Geo location for that IP which is Hong Kong 

---
### Hashing 

Q: Hashes provide a unique identifier for files, aiding in detecting similar threats across machines. What is the SHA1 hash of the malware's executable?

To determine hash of the offending process we have to dump it out. With Volatility we have an option to dump a process based on PID simply by calling 

` -o .\dest_folder\ windows.dumpfiles --pid 4628`

After which we can do checksum on the suspected file and get the hash 

When it comes to MemProcFS - I could not find dumped files from the memory. But if you remember we used `-forensic 1` parameter when we 'mounted' the dump file. 

If we take a look at what wiki says about forensic subfolder we learn that : 

```
The directory _forensic_ exists as a sub-directory to the file system root.

The directory contains directories and files related to the MemProcFS forensic sub-system.

The forensic sub-system is a collection of more thorough batch-oriented analysis tasks that may be undertaken on memory dumps. By default the forensic mode is not enabled.
```

Thanks to this we are able to 'browse' root directory of the system . The `/forensic/files` directory contains a best-effort reconstructed file system reconstructed from potentially recoverable file objects in the kernel. The file objects are retrieved from the kernel pool and process handles.

If we hash suspected file located in : `M:\forensic\files\ROOT\Users\alex\Downloads\ffffca82b85341c0-ChromeSetup.exe` we get a hash that that gets 68/71 in Virustotal so it is logical to assume we have our culprit. 

Unfortunately even though the hash is recognized - its not the one the challenge expects ( since its not of the loaded running exe in mem ) so we have to use the hash gathered with Volatility. 

---
### Timestamp 

Q: Understanding the malware's development timeline can offer insights into its deployment. What is the compilation UTC timestamp of the malware?

This information can be found in within file headers of the complied PE file. We chose to use PE-Bear.  If you dont have access to PE header analysis tool - Virustotal has this info listed in the details tab for the detected hash. 

---
### Related domains 

Q: Identifying domains involved with this malware helps in blocking future malicious communications and identifying current possible communications with that domain in our network. Can you provide the domain related to the malware?

And finally since we are already at the end and presumably we have VT opened we can easily answer the last question with quick look at the Relation tab and see that related domain with this malware is : [VirusTotal - Domain - dnsnb8.net](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/domain/dnsnb8.net)